README.md, before:

Kronometer README
=================

Description
-----------
Hello!
Kronometer is a simple *chronometer* application, built for the KDE Linux Desktop Environment.

Changelog
---------

v0.1.1

* added **.desktop** file for KMenu integration

v0.1

* first public and stable release
* initial basic features: start, pause, resume and reset the stopwatch widget
* basic KDE settings: toolbar/shortcuts configuration, statusbar visibility

Installation
------------

Distro-agnostic installation instructions:

1. Download the latest source files archive from github
2. Extract the archive in a folder and run the following commands:

```
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ cmake ..
$ sudo make install
```

Now you should have **kronometer** installed under **/usr/local/bin** and it should be available under the *Utility* entry in your KMenu.
If not, try to reboot your pc and now **kronomoter** should be in your KMenu.

Most KDE distro should already provide the necessary software dependencies: **kdelibs**, **cmake**, **make**, **automoc** and **gcc-c++**.
Some distro (e.g. Sabayon) might not provide **automoc** by default, so it must be installed before kronometer installation.

Installation tested succesfully on:

* Chakra Linux
* Sabayon Linux (need to install **automoc**)

TODO list
---------

TODO

Commit message:

Updated install instructions with new install prefix /usr

README.md, after:

Kronometer README
=================

Description
-----------
Hello!
Kronometer is a simple *chronometer* application, built for the KDE Linux Desktop Environment.

Changelog
---------

v0.1.2

* Switched install prefix from (cmake-default) **/usr/local** to **/usr**

v0.1.1

* added **.desktop** file for KMenu integration

v0.1

* first public and stable release
* initial basic features: start, pause, resume and reset the stopwatch widget
* basic KDE settings: toolbar/shortcuts configuration, statusbar visibility

Installation
------------

Distro-agnostic installation instructions:

1. Download the latest source files archive from github
2. Extract the archive in your preferred directory and run the following commands:

```
$ mkdir build && cd build
$ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=`kde4-config --prefix` ..
$ sudo make install
```

Now you should have **kronometer** installed under **/usr/bin** and it should be available under the *Utility* entry in your KMenu.
If not, try to reboot your pc and now **kronomoter** should be in your KMenu.

Most KDE distro should already provide the necessary software dependencies: **kdelibs**, **cmake**, **make**, **automoc** and **gcc-c++**.
Some distro (e.g. Sabayon) might not provide **automoc** by default, so it must be installed before kronometer installation.

Installation tested succesfully on:

* Chakra Linux
* Sabayon Linux (need to install **automoc**)

TODO list
---------

TODO
